The Joe Rogan experience. You know what? Okay. So.
One of the things I do, you know how you have like the junk, the, the,
the junkie folder. Yes.
So to remind myself of how blind I might be and how I could,
like how I need to change my mind. Right. I, I talk about this with my students,
but I keep it with son. I actually have a con I have a, this touchy,
I have a Confederate monument in my wallet right here.
So I keep, I don't know if you know, so the Confederate $2 bill.
Oh, wow. That's a real Confederate too. Yeah. That's.
A Confederate $2 bill and that guy on it right there.
That's Judah Benjamin that he's the, he's the only Jew.
Whoever made it onto American currency.
If you want to call it and it's Confederate money. Confederate money. Yeah.
Go for.
It. What year is this from? Uh.
Sometime let's see. What does it say on there?
I don't remember the exact year on the bill. This is weird, man. It's paper.
Yes. Paper. But I.
Mean, it's like really flimsy paper. I would think you'd want to like,
keep this under glass.
Or something. No, it's not. I mean, they're not like super valuable.
It's not no, but.
Historically, I mean, it's so touchy, right?
Even saying anything about Confederacy, of course, it's not valuable. You idiot,
but they won't.
Do that. I'll tell you why, because here's why I keep that in my wallet.
People won't do that. I mean,
maybe they'll take that soundbite and it'll get ultra processed and people will
be like, he was arguing for Confederate monuments,
but that's stupid because I keep that in my wallet because that guy celebrated
Passover. That guy celebrated Passover, which is a Jewish holiday,
all about how slavery was bad. Meanwhile,
it looks like he's got a little Hitler.
Mustache. He had, he had slaves. Whoa. So here's this guy. Who's.
A Jew in America in the 18 hundreds who,
so who's one of his most important holidays is a celebration of the
Jews, liberation from slavery who had most likely slaves
in his house,
serving him the Passover dishes and certainly
washing them. And what that means to me at least is like,
there's going to be something in my life that I'm as blind to,
as that guy was to the evils of slavery.
And if you can have your most important holiday,
be a holiday where you're celebrating the liberation of your people from slavery
and still end up on a Confederate.
Bill, like crazy, God knows what we're blind to right now. Right.
What is it that we're not seeing right now?
And people can justify as very strange. Right. And it,
and it means that it means that no matter what.
There's probably some kind of thing that that a hundred years
from now is going to seem like, how could Alan,
how could this ETF have not seen that? Right.
It was right in front of his eyes.
Yeah. What do you think that one thing would be,
have you ever tried to think about it?
Yeah. Yeah. I have tried to think about it. Well, so there's a,
there's a couple of things. I think it could be.
One of them is the fact that we've essentially exported slave
labor. So, you know,
people are going to be like all these people who were talking about how slavery
is bad, right. And chattel slavery is a very,
very different thing from other kinds of slavery.
But there are ways in which people are trapped in horrific situations
who are manufacturing, the goods that I have now, it gets complicated, right?
Because people are like, well, you know, that's better that than no job at all.
I'm not sure exactly how it all plays out,
but I can imagine a future in which people look back at me and you and the
things we are consuming and saying,
how were they blind to the conditions in which those items
were produced? Sure.
Well, one of the best examples is someone tweeting about slavery on an iPhone.
That's made by someone who works at Foxconn,
who has these giant nets around the building to keep people from jumping off
because they live such horrific lives that they, they leap to their deaths.
So often they have to protect the building. And this is the exact point.
At which if you want it to ultra process, this conversation,
you take that soundbite. And you'd say, look at these two,
comparing, working in a Foxconn factory to chattel slavery,
which is precisely not explain chattel, slavery, chattel slavery. Well,
so sometimes, so for example,
when people are trying to justify the Bible and the fact that like,
so why didn't Jesus, here's this guy who came down and he, you know,
shocked everyone, right? Why didn't he also say like, you know,
also slaves need to be released ASAP. Slavery is bad. He didn't say that.
So one of the things people will point out is that there are different forms of
slavery. So chattel, slavery, specifically, where,
where people are turned into property and bought and sold and have no
opportunity to earn their freedom is a sort of,
it's a specific kind of slavery.
That was the kind of slavery we had in the United States.
It's uniquely horrifically bad.
And so that kind of slavery is not the same thing as
working in a Foxconn factory. But you know, when I think about, you know,
I'm thinking about this right here, I am on like, you know,
what's going to happen when that parallel gets made. You know,
I think it's actually an instructive parallel, right?
Like I'd like us to think about what, you know,
how were the goods that we're using and consuming and where they're made.
I also don't want people to think that for a moment that chattel slavery is the
same thing as working in a Foxconn.
Factory. And most certainly isn't, but it is.
Was bad. It's bad.
Working in a Foxconn factory is bad. Just.
Want your children to be there. I'll tell ya. Another thing is, is a, is eating,
is eating factory farmed animals. Yes. I mean, I, I it's,
it's, it's messed up. I don't know. Like I do it, you know, I go out,
I eat, I eat meat that I know comes from a place, you know,
where the animals are not treated, where they're in health, it's animal hell,
you know, and we have these animal Hells. Um, when do you do that? Bam. I mean,
just yesterday when I went out and ate like baby back ribs down the street,
I guarantee those baby backwards. Didn't come from, uh,
Joel Sultan's Polyface farm. Right. Um,
and I think that I, you know,
that's something I think about, but I, but I do it anyway.
I can imagine a time when we look back on our current eating habits and we're
like, why wasn't everyone arguing for ethically sourced meat? Like,
how was it that, that people didn't didn't want to, you know,
force everyone collectively to pay more for meat that was raised in a way,
like the kind of way that salad and pioneers right in this I'm really on board
with Salatin. I think he's, I think he's right to say, look there,
there are contexts in which animals are happier and less happy and they're
happier on my farm and they're miserable.
But I thought it was very interesting in your book where you talk about Michael
Pollan, pressing him on whether or not you could feed New York city that way.
And he's like, do you really need New York.
City? Yeah. Well, so south sultans got it. Right? So this is,
will and sound and thinks. I mean, he thinks about this, right?
Like you saw in the book and explicitly divine terms, right.
God has designed the world, but I'll tell you,
this is a story I tell at the end of the book,
I was eating sounds delicious pork. I'm sure it was in,
it's an incredible place. Polyface farms.
And I was eating his pork and like the people there are awesome. He's awesome.
And he announces to everyone, he says, look,
we're going to be doing a bit of a change.
We have a new thing that we're going to be doing.
We are going to be producing chickens for a
growing segment of our market that doesn't want soy fed to their
chickens. So sounds chickens get a lot of their calories, not from his farm.
They get a significant portion of their calories from non GMO soy.
That's grown at another place outside of Polyface. Right?
So it's not a self-contained system. He says,
but there's some people that don't want soy fed to their chickens.
They feel like they react to story. They don't want it.
So they're going to start feeding their chickens.
There's a certain percentage of sauteing chicken season to start feeding fish
meal, ground fish meal. So afterward I went up to him and I was like, you know,
Joel, that doesn't seem very natural. Like, do chickens eat?
They swim like, right. Like, are they getting a hold of this fish?
And you know what? He looked at me and he said, I'm a hypocrite. You know,
I'm a hypocrite like anyone else. But at least I admit it.
And what I wanted to say to him was,
there's nothing wrong with feeding your chickens fish meal.
If some people want chickens that are fed fish meal and you're treating your
chickens in a way you think is ethical.
There's not some kind of purity tests that you need to apply to your farm,
even though it's on a road called pure Meadows lane. Right. But it's like,
you don't need a purity test for your farm. You're you're a good guy who cares.
I mean, I really think he's a guy who really cares about his animals too,
you know? And,
and it just kinda made me sad that he thought of that as some
sort of hypocrisy. Well.
The only hypocrisy that you could see in it is factory farmed. Fish is awful.
I mean, it's, it's really bad. I mean, it's bad for the environment.
It's bad for the fish. It's, there's,
there's not a lot of sustainable factory fish operations.
It wouldn't make you wince. If you actually saw how they process all that fish.
So it's a factory farm fish. Another thing,
I didn't know any of this stuff until I started this research.
So I'll tell you a story, crazy story.
I was in the Netherlands researching the food chapter of this book,
which is about vanilla, which I could talk to you about vanilla,
which sounds very boring. Right. Which is why I picked it. It's vanilla. Um,
I'm researching vanilla and people want natural vanilla. And I don't know if,
you know, do you know where vanilla comes from vanilla beans? Yeah.
Viewer those come from, no, that was, that was the end of my,
that was the end of the line for me. Right.
So we've got vanilla beans in the house. So they they're actually on an orchid.
This beautiful white orchid fine is where vanilla beans. Right. Makes sense.
So the vanilla ice cream has that orchid on the.
Yeah. Yeah. All of a sudden I was like, oh wait,
that's why my yogurt looks like that.
Every single one of those is artificially inseminated.
So there's a person who goes and you can watch YouTube videos. It's crazy.
They always been like that.
No.
So vanilla used to be only in Mesoamerica.
That was the only place where it grew naturally red that's the only is everyone
thinks of Madagascar. Right? Madagascar, vanilla,
only place vanilla was growing was in Mesoamerica.
It was these Mayan silviculturists, which is like forest gardeners who had, who,
who grew this. And it was pollinated by it's only known natural pollinator,
which was this thing called a Melipona bee. I don't know if I pronounce that.
Right. What a mean? So that's the only place it was.
And when people came from Europe, they were like,
this is incredible vanilla amazing. And they wanted to grow it,
but they couldn't because they didn't know how to pollinate it.
And then a 12 year old slave named Edmond lbs discovered
how to artificially pollinate vanilla flowers.
And just like that,
you now have the ability to grow vanilla orchids in an in non-natural
habitats. Right. So it's still expensive.
Cause you can only grow them in Madagascar to heat it. You brought,
I don't know if you know this, like, you know, they're there, uh,
is vanilla beans are incredibly expensive.
Natural vanilla is just really expensive ingredient. Um,
and that's because there's not a lot of places. It can be grown.
So they're looking for ways to make natural vanilla cheaper.
And the Netherlands is where all of the best growing technology,
a lot of the best growing technology is.
So I went to a university there where they have a greenhouse where they're
growing vanilla, orchids, pineapples,
bell peppers, like coconuts. I mean, you name it, everything.
They figured out how to grow all of these natural plants. Right. But I'm,
I'm sitting in here and I'm like,
you got vanilla orchids growing out of these buckets in this highly
technological environment, you know, it's all temperature controlled, right?
And for what so that you can have cheap vanilla beans that are,
that can be labeled legally natural.
And that whole story comes back to the salmon and the fish that you were talking
about before, because in that same place,
there was a machine like out of Charlie and the chocolate factory with like pink
sludge whooshing through it. This was, you know, a couple of,
couple of places down from the, from the orchid house. And I was like,
what's that? And the guy who showed me around says,
that's algae that we're growing here because people want their salmon,
their farmed salmon to be pink.
And it's not pink because it doesn't eat the diet that it gets in nature.
So it's naturally gray, but people, people won't pay for that.
So he's farming algae, which is natural. So he's, that's the stuff,
the pink stuff.
And then they feed that to the farm salmon just so it can be naturally
pink. So when you go into your whole foods or whatever,
and you see that your salmon is all natural and it's pink.
And I'm just looking, I'm looking at this whole thing. And I'm like,
what is wrong with us human beings that we've.
Gotten to this point where we like, we want stuff natural,
so bad that we're developing new technologies to figure out how to like,
we'll have our cake and eat.
Salmon. It's really an orange, but they diet, they.
Do. They get the oranges, orange pinkish color. But th th there's also a weight.
So as taxa, thin, I think is, is the chemical that,
and that you can have it artificially, but then people don't want artificial.
They just feed them.
Other bugs that they eat that make them way.
Too expensive. Really? Yeah. For when you want it on that scale.
So they feed them this allergy and, and I was like, I get,
I get, I get what we're doing. I get what we want. Right. We want stuff.
That's better for the planet we want natural. And so then you, so what do we do?
So, but it's so complicated, right? Like what you're saying, like,
what do we do with factory farm Fisher?
Like what you were saying about Joel Salatin, how do you get,
how do you get Joel salad, meat to people that can't afford it right.